#summary Configuration guidelines

The following shows a default configuration file for English ('[http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/config/en_dep_config.xml config/en_dep_config.xml]').

{{{
<configuration>
    <common>
        <language>en</language>
        <format>dep</format>
    </common>
    <train>
        <algorithm name="lib" l="1" c="0.1" e="0.1" b="-1"/>
        <cutoff ngram="0"/>
        <threads>2</threads>
    </train>
    <predict>
        <morph_dict>../lib/en_dict-1.0.jar</morph_dict>
    </predict>
</configuration>
}}}

<*configuration*> is the top element that consists of 3 elements: <*common*>, <*train*>, and <*predict*>.
<br>

== <*common*> ==

The <*common*> element is required for both training and decoding.  It consists of 2 required elements.

 * <*language*> ::= ch | en | hi
  * Specifies a language (ch: Chinese, en: English, hi: Hindi)
 * <*format*> ::= pos | dep | conll
  * Specifies a [DataFormat data format]

== <*train*> ==

The <*train*> element is required for training.  It consists of 1 required element (algorithm) and 2 optional elements.

 * <*algorithm*> specifies a learning algorithm.  It requires an attribute *name*.
  * *name* ::= lib (LibLinear L2-SVM; default) | rrm (Robust Risk Minimization)
  * *l* ::= lib: 1 (L1-loss; default) | 2 (L2-loss)
  * *c* ::= lib: penalty (default = 0.1), rrm: regularization (default = 0.1)
  * *e* ::= lib: termination criterion (default = 0.1), rrm: learning rate (default = 0.001)
  * *b* ::= lib: bias (default = -1)
  * *k* ::= rrm: max # of iterations (default = 40)
  * *m* ::= rrm: initial weights (default = 1.0)
 * <*cutoff*> specifies cutoff values for features.  For example, if it is set to 1, only features that appear more than once will be used for training.
  * *ngram* ::= N-gram feature cutoff (default = 0)
 * <*threads*> ::= # of threads to be used during training (default = 2)

== <*predict*> ==

The <*predict*> element is required for decoding in [DataFormat pos format].  It consists of 1 elements.

 * <*morph_dict*> ::= absolute or relative path
  * Specifies a dictionary file for [MorphAnalyzerGuidelines Clear morphological analyzer].