#summary Feature template guidelines

*This page is out-of-date, will be updated shortly.*

ClearParser requires a feature template file in XML.  The following shows a sample feature template (it is not the default feature template).


Currently allows upto 3-gram features.
l = l0 = l+0 = l-0
l1 = l+1
visible="false" -> false, everything else is true
if no visible -> true

{{{
<feature_template>
    <unigram field="f"  node="l0"/>
    <unigram field="m"  node="l0"/>
    <unigram field="p"  node="b0"/>
    <unigram field="d"  node="b0"/>
    <unigram field="f"  node="l-1"/>
    <unigram field="f"  node="b-2"/>
    <unigram field="f"  node="l1"/>
    <unigram field="f"  node="b2"/>
    <unigram field="f"  node="l0_hd"/>
    <unigram field="d"  node="l0_rm"/>
    <unigram field="d"  node="b0_lm"/>
    <unigram field="pm" node="l0"/>
		
    <bigram field="pp" node0="l0" node1="b0"></bigram>
    <bigram field="pm" node0="l0" node1="b0"></bigram>
    <bigram field="mp" node0="l0" node1="b0"></bigram>
    <bigram field="mm" node0="l0" node1="b0"></bigram>

    <trigram field="ppp" node0="l0_lm" node1="l0" node2="b0"></trigram>
    <trigram field="ppp" node0="b0"    node1="b1" node2="b2"></trigram>
</feature_template>
}}}

<*feature_template*> is the top element that consists of 3 kinds of elements: <*unigram*>, <*bigram*>, and <*trigram*>.
<br><br>

== <*cutoff*> ==

The <*cutoff*> element consist of 3 optional attributes: _label_, _ngram_, and _extra_.  The _label_ and _ngram_ attributes take integer values indicating cutoffs for class labels and n-gram features.  For example, if _label="2"_, only classes whose occurrences are greater than 2 are trained.  Similarly, if _ngram="4"_, only n-gram features whose occurrences are greater than 4 are trained.

The _extra_ attribute can take either integer values delimited by commas or a string value of 'ngram'.  For example, _extra="2,3"_ indicates that the 1st and 2nd extra features use cutoffs of 2 and 3, respectively (extra features are system-specific).  If _extra="ngram"_, the n-gram cutoff is used for all extra features.

When there is no cutoff specified for any attribute, the default value of 0 is assigned.

== <*unigram*> ==

The <*unigram*> element consists of 2 required attributes.

 * attribute.*field* ::= f | m | p | d | pm
  * f: word form
  * m: lemma
  * p: part-of-speech tag
  * d: dependency label
  * pm: joined feature of (POS tag, lemma)
 * attribute.*node* ::= l# | b# | l#`_`(hd | lm | rm) | b#`_`(hd | lm | rm)
  * 'l' indicates the last token in _lambda,,1,,_, and 'b' indicates the first token in _beta_.
  * # indicates an offset from the token (e.g., 'l0' is the last token in _lambda,,1,,_, 'b0' is the first token in _beta_, 'l-1' is the previous token of 'l0', and 'b1' is the next token of 'b0')
  * `_`(hd | lm | rm) is optional and indicates the _head_ | _leftmost dependent_ | _rightmost dependent_ of the token (e.g., 'l0`_`hd' is the head of 'l0')

== <*bigram*> ==

The <*bigram*> element consists of 3 required attributes.

 * attribute.*field* ::= pp | pm | mp | mm
  * pp: joined feature of (POS tag of node0, POS tag of node1)
  * pm: joined feature of (POS tag of node0, lemma of node1)
  * mp: joined feature of (lemma of node0, POS tag of node1)
  * mm: joined feature of (lemma of node0, lemma of node1)
 * attribute.*node0* ::= same as attribute.*node*
  * left node
 * attribute.*node1* ::= same as attribute.*node*
  * right node

== <*trigram*> ==

The <*trigram*> element consists of 4 required attributes.

 * attribute.*field* ::= ppp
  * ppp: joined feature of (POS tag of node0, POS tag of node1, POS tag of node2)
 * attribute.*node0* ::= same as attribute.*node*
  * left node
 * attribute.*node1* ::= same as attribute.*node*
  * middle node
 * attribute.*node2* ::= same as attribute.*node*
  * right node