#summary Penn-to-dependency converter: guidelines

= Clear penn-to-dependency converter =

*Clear penn-to-dependency converter* takes [http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~treebank/ Penn Treebank format] phrase structure trees and generates [http://ilk.uvt.nl/conll/#dataformat CoNLL style] dependency trees.  The converter allows users to customize head-percolation rules.  It currently supports English and Korean.

== How to run ==

On the terminal, type the following command.

{{{
java clear.engine.PennToDep -i <input file> -o <output file> -h <headrule file> [-m <dictionary-file> -n <minimum sentence length> -l <language> -f -e]
java clear.engine.PennToDep -i dat/sample.phrase -o dat/sample.dep -h config/headrule_en_ontonotes.txt -m model/en_dict-1.0.jar -n 2 -l en -f
}}}

 * *input file* (required) - name of a file containing phrase structure trees ([http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/dat/sample.phrase dat/sample.phrase]).
 * *output file* (required) - name of a file containing dependency trees converted from the input file ([http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/dat/sample.dep dat/sample.dep]).
 * *headrule file* (required) - name of a file containing head-percolation rules ([http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/config/headrule_en_ontonotes.txt config/headrule_en_ontonotes.txt]).
 * *dictionary file* (optional) - name of a dictionary file for [MorphAnalyzerGuidelines Clear morphological analyzer] ([http://clearparser.googlecode.com/svn/trunk/model/en_dict-1.0.jar model/en_dict-1.0.jar]).
 * *minimum sentence length* (optional) - minimum number of word-tokens in each sentence (inclusive, default = 1).
 * *language* (optional) - en: English (default), kr: Korean.
 * *-f* (optional) - if set, use function tags as dependency labels.
 * *-e* (optional) - if set, include empty categories.

== Input file ==

*Input file* contains [http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~treebank/ Penn Treebank style] phrase structure trees ([http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/dat/sample.phrase dat/sample.phrase]).  Each tree must start with either an empty phrase (example 1) or a `TOP`-phrase (example 2).

 * Example 1
{{{
((S (NP-SBJ (NP (DT The)
                    (ADJP (RBS most)
                          (JJ important))
                    (NN thing))
                (PP (IN about)
                    (NP (NNP Disney))))
        (VP (VBZ is)
            (SBAR-PRD (IN that)
                      (S (NP-SBJ (PRP it))
                         (VP (VBZ is)
                             (NP-PRD (DT a)
                                     (JJ global)
                                     (NN brand))))))
        (. .)))
}}}

 * Example 2
{{{
(TOP (S (NP-SBJ (NP (DT The)
                    (NN world)
                    (POS 's))
                (JJ fifth)
                (NNP Disney)
                (NN park))
        (VP (MD will)
            (ADVP-TMP (RB soon))
            (VP (VB open)
                (PP-CLR (IN to)
                        (NP (DT the)
                            (NN public)))
                (ADVP-LOC (RB here))))
        (. .)))
}}}

== Output file ==

*Output file* contains CoNLL style dependency trees in [DataFormat dep format] ([http://code.google.com/p/clearparser/source/browse/trunk/dat/sample.dep dat/sample.dep]).  Each tree is delimited by a blank line.

{{{
1     The          the          DT     _    4     NMOD
2     most         most         RBS    _    3     AMOD
3     important    important    JJ     _    4     NMOD
4     thing        thing        NN     _    7     SBJ
5     about        about        IN     _    4     NMOD
6     Disney       disney       NNP    _    5     PMOD
7     is           be           VBZ    _    0     ROOT
8     that         that         IN     _    7     PRD
9     it           it           PRP    _    10    SBJ
10    is           be           VBZ    _    8     SUB
11    a            a            DT     _    13    NMOD
12    global       global       JJ     _    13    NMOD
13    brand        brand        NN     _    10    PRD
14    .            .            .      _    7     P
}}}

== Headrule file ==

*Headrule file* contains head-percolation rules for all phrases/clauses.  Each line consists of rules for a phrase/clause.  The following shows a format of each line.

{{{
<pos-tag><tab><direction=l|r><tab><rule>(;<rule>)*
}}}
 * *pos-tag*: phrasal or clausal level [http://bulba.sdsu.edu/jeanette/thesis/PennTags.html part-of-speech tag]
 * *direction*: `l` - find the leftmost head, `r` - find the rightmost head
 * *rule*: pos-tag/function-tag rules in [http://download.oracle.com/javase/6/docs/api/java/util/regex/Pattern.html Java regular expression format]

Here are sample rules for noun-phrases (`NP`) and verb-phrases (`VP`).

{{{
NP  r  NN.*|NML;NX;PRP;FW;CD;NP|QP|JJ.*|VB.*;ADJP;S;SBAR;.*
VP  l  TO;MD;VB.*;VP;-PRD;NN;NNS;NP;QP;JJ.*;ADJP;.*
}}}

 * For `NP`, it first looks for the rightmost '`NN.*|NML'`: the rule covers `NN`, `NNS`, `NNP`, `NNPS`, and `NML`.  If such a node exists, take it as the head of the phrase; if such a node doesn't exist, it searches for the next node (`NX`).
 * '`-`' is used to indicate a function tag.  For `VP`, after searching for `TO;MD;VB.*;VP`, it looks for any node with a function tag '`PRD`'.  The [http://groups.inf.ed.ac.uk/switchboard/subcattags.html link] shows the list of function tags used for Penn Treebank.  A function tag can only be specified as a single unit (e.g., '`-PRD|SBJ`' or '`-PRD|-SBJ`' is not allowed).

For `S|VP`, whose child forms a gap-relation ('='), the following headrule is used instead.

{{{
GAP  l  MD;VB.*;VP;-SBJ;-TPC;-PRD
}}}